Music
A wonderful good morning on day four of the 34th Chaos Communication Congress.
I'm glad that so many of you are already here and we'll start right away so we don't get lost again.
Leander Seige is with me on stage and he'll tell you something about the International Image Interoperability Framework.
Cultural institutions create interoperable interfaces for digitalized cultural goods.
Please give a big round of applause for Leander.
Thank you very much. I wish you a wonderful morning.
I'm very happy that even though today is the fourth conference day, you have already appeared here for the first talk.
Thank you very much. I'm glad that I have the opportunity to present my current favorite technology,
the International Image Interoperability Framework,
which allows interoperable interfaces for digitalized cultural goods to be realized.
I have very few words for myself. I work at the Leipzig University Library.
I'm responsible for the field of digital services and I have a lot to do with these things.
But I'm also personally enthusiastic about it and that leads to the fact that I'm doing some small,
self-motivated private projects in this field. I'll show you a small example later.
I think it's well known and many would agree that digitalized images are nowadays a fundamental information carrier,
cultural heritage, manuscripts, prints, drawings and paintings and many other things are much better accessible in this way.
In the past, access was only possible exclusively for researchers. Today it is possible for everyone.
The original experience is therefore much more secure.
Digitalization is nothing new, but until now digitalization was often associated with the fact that the data,
the metadata and the digitalized images themselves were presented in silo-like systems,
which were hardly compatible with other data, were therefore difficult to provide images internally,
and were always individually linked to the realization of the respective portal.
I have taken an example from our own library here, an old Bible manuscript,
which I will introduce later, where this was the case. When this portal was built, it was a very modern and progressive portal.
But nowadays it cannot meet these demands, which are being applied today.
And yes, I'll get to that in a moment.
So here again a sense of what the situation is often like, how digitalized presentations are often realized on the network.
The systems are isolated, carry their institutional character to the outside and are access to the repositories,
which is nice, but they are not interoperable with each other.
And this point is addressed by the International Image Interoperability Framework,
which was specifically designed for this purpose, namely a standard AP layer between the actual repositories,
i.e. the storage systems for digitized images and the metadata.
And to connect these APIs with the presentations, so that the data from different repositories
can be put together in different, not necessarily institutional, i.e. private work surfaces, virtually, by the user himself.
The community around this framework has grown quite a bit.
It was formed from a community of Stanford University Libraries, the British Library and the libraries in Oxford.
In the meantime, the community has grown very strongly.
In Germany, it is mainly the Bavarian State Library, which is very committed to this.
The University Library Leipzig does the same, the French National Library and many others.
In the community, many international, important libraries, universities, national libraries,
and even the Vatican Library are now providing their digitalization in this interoperable format.
There are currently four APIs that are specified under the CCBI license.
Two of these APIs are actually required to start a presentation.
This is the Image API, which actually delivers the pixels.
And there is the Presentation API, which is there to define the structure and metadata of these pixels
and make them interoperable.
Other APIs then deal with the topic of search and authentication,
but I'm not going into that here because that would blow up the framework.
The particularly nice thing about this standard is that it relies on linked data.
The data is typically stored in JSON-LD.
The identifiers for the various things in this data are usually HTTP URIs, which are therefore solvable.
And also the reference of metadata from different sources to each other
makes it possible to save completely independently of your own data.
A few words about the Presentation API, which models the hierarchy in which the metadata is stored.
First there are the collections, which therefore summarize several works into a meaningful unit.
Such collections can also be created by yourself.
Researchers can put together their own research collections,
which consist of manifest files that then define sequences of images.
A manifest file describes a work that consists of image sequences.
These image sequences are canvas objects, i.e. pure page objects,
which are then annotated by content, by images, but that can also be texts.
I'll go back to the slide.
You can see very nicely on this slide how this abstract canvas object is finally annotated with the actual image content,
which enables this canvas object to be described through several different image files
and texts, text descriptions, transcriptions and perhaps even translations.
The manifest files are built like this.
I have here a schematic overview.
You don't have to look at it exactly, it should only describe how the internal structure is built in a linked data manner.
And according to the same mode, the annotations are structured in these systems, which the users can also apply themselves,
so that it is possible to have your own annotations in your own storage system
related to objects that don't even have to be in my own storage system.
This functionality is displayed on this slide.
It is therefore possible to use IIIF presentation systems to summarize the images from different repositories
into a virtual research environment, to use this term,
and then to store the scientific notes in different annotations.
For the APIs of IIIF there are now numerous software applications.
I'm always using only one example here, which I will also show live.
For the presentation API there are some viewers who can represent the digitization.
I would like to mention the Mirador Viewer, which is multi-documentable,
so it can collect different digitizations from different sources
and also has extensive functions of image manipulation and annotation.
The image API that actually delivers the images is very dynamically structured,
that means you can actually tell the image server that this API corresponds
which section of an image is scaled or not scaled, etc.
So you can also ask for image manipulation directly from the server,
which then prepares the digitization accordingly, and so it is possible to take over
the digitization that is provided by institutions dynamically in its own applications.
As with the presentation API, there is a whole range of software products
that realize the image server on this technology. For example, I call this the IP Image Server.
This is a fast CGI module for Apache that is provided under the GPLv3.
And this server is able to implement this presentation API,
and it does so on the basis of preprocessed image files.
For this you apply image files that contain several solutions of the digitization
and ideally are already understaffed in tiles that are then dynamically delivered by the image server.
Unfortunately, there is only a small selection of software with which such files can be created at the moment.
TIFF files can be produced quite well with ImageMagic, but for JPEG 2000 it is already more difficult.
Unfortunately, there is only the commercial solution Kakadu,
and the OpenJPEG implementation is being improved in this context to be able to be used.
Example number 1, the Papyrus Ebers, I would like to present briefly.
Now it will be a bit practical, I will show a few demos.
The Papyrus Ebers is a scripted role that is 3,500 years old,
is very well preserved and contains 880 medical treatment procedures.
The descriptions of it are from ancient Egypt.
The role has a total length of 18 meters,
was once cut for conservatory reasons and is now digitized
and put together again on our website.
It is also callable by TIFF.
I will show briefly how this works and also present the quality of the representation.
This is the entire scripted role, which does not exist physically anymore.
The digital field is 145,000 pixels wide and 3,000 pixels high and is still easily zoomed in.
In addition, we have also translated the medical recipes,
so that you can also look over here which medical procedures for which fractures were used.
For safety, I have this as a slide, I will skip that now.
Example 2, the Codex Sinaiticus is a Bible manuscript from the 4th century,
which is considered to be the first Bible manuscript that contains the complete New Testament
and is distributed today in four institutions.
The largest part is in the British Library in London,
a smaller part is here in the University Library in Leipzig,
the National Library in Russia and the St. Catherine's Monastery in Egypt
also have smaller parts of the Codex.
This is a perfect use case for TIFF to bring the entire work
together in one presentation and then make it platterable.
However, this can be topped by the fact that there is a second Bible manuscript
which is about the same age as the Codex Vaticanus,
which is in the Vatican and the nice thing is that the leaves,
at least the Leipzig leaves of the Codex Sinaiticus, are provided by us as TIFF
and the Vatican leaves are also provided by the Vatican libraries as TIFF.
Now I can show you how it is possible to collect digitalized works from different institutions
in a TIFF-compatible surface, which you can also set up yourself.
I will first take the Codex Sinaiticus from Leipzig and load the manifest file
of the Codex Vaticanus into this surface and open this view here in the Mirador Viewer
and can now show the digitalized works side by side through this relatively comfortable option.
In fact, as a researcher, I demonstrate this prominent example,
that I collect digitalized works from very different institutions individually in my research environment.
I will now call up the same place, the beginning of the book Esther,
and as a full-time researcher in this field, it is obvious that it is about the same content.
Let's continue. Here again the picture of the two digitalized works being distributed
in this moment by different repositories.
Example number three is a demo that can be found in the official demo system of the Mirador project.
I will close this other object here. It shows a manuscript from France,
which has been cut out of an illustration.
This illustration is obviously found in another institution today.
The data model of IIIF, the institution-based, also allows digitalized works from different institutions
to be brought together on the same canvas, as I showed earlier,
to create the impression of the original virtually.
Because this demo system is so beautiful, I can show you shortly how it works with the annotations.
You can call up an area here and leave an important note.
Depending on how the system is configured, this annotation can be distributed in an institutional storage,
but it is also possible to provide researchers with working environments in the future
to put their private annotations and notes on the works they are working on.
Here I made another cutout, showing how the two different digitalized works are displayed in the manifest file.
If you look at the URL, you can see that the different image servers can be put together on the canvas.
That was a mistake.
I can give you an example. We have tried this technology practically this year.
There is a monthly manuscript course at the University Library of Leipzig.
This year, we provided a virtual working environment for the participants
where they could work virtually with our own manuscripts, but also with manuscripts from other institutions.
Then they put annotations together in groups and created them together with the manuscripts.
This way, they were able to document their research results together.
This was based on a software provided by the Stanford University Libraries, which is also freely available.
The Mirador Viewer, which I showed earlier, has been expanded again.
I would also like to introduce a small private project, as a start-up announcement.
I used Wikidata and the use of Sparkle Endpoints to pull up high resolution pictures of paintings, drawings and cards
on my own server and converted them into 3D.
I have prepared them and made them searchable.
This system allows you to search for this digitalization.
I can also show the track and drop feature, which is often used or recommended for the integration or connection of discovery systems
with image presentation systems, in which these data can be retrieved.
The 3D manifest files are also used to retrieve the data from other workspaces.
A very small selection of data is also possible.
Many important institutions have digitalized 3D online, including the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York and the French National Library.
There is also a manual portal in Switzerland, which contains the important manuals of the Swiss institutions.
All of this is also 3D compatible.
Here are the links. If you are interested, you can look for this later in the PDF.
The Welcome Library also has large image storage.
Archive Org supports 3D as well.
These are just examples of large data pools that you can access to realize your own presentation or other projects that you want to implement with this data.
The 3Dif APIs are of course developing further.
The presentation API version 3.0 is to be released shortly, which will provide a change in the data models in relation to annotations
and on the other hand also provide support for video data.
Institutional, two words about the University Library of Leipzig. We have adopted an Open Digitalization Policy
in order to make the digitalized data in our house under CC0 or CCPDMark freely available.
This is also possible in this institutionally compatible way.
You can look into our digitalization workshop, where you can see the last 20 digitalized data that have been sent through our digitalization workflow.
We will soon conduct a hackathon in Leipzig, from which we will also organize a 3Dif workshop.
I thank you very much for your attention. If you want to know more about 3Dif, you can find out about it at www.3if.io.
My contact details are also listed here. Thank you very much. If you have any questions, we will have a few minutes.
Thank you very much, Leander. We have five minutes for Q&A. If you have any questions, please ask.
I have a question for Signal Angel. Is the Internet already on the line and has questions? No questions from the Internet. Then we start with microphone 1.
Good morning. Thank you for the lecture. My question is, are there interfaces for inventory databases such as Star Text, HIDA or similar?
I can't give you a specific answer about this product, but I think 3Dif is a standardized, actually only the description of an interface standard.
Systems that are supposed to be made compatible with it should offer interfaces that realize this standard.
Thank you. Then we continue with microphone 1. My question is, this is a standard. Are there alternative standards that are also used somewhere?
The big advantage is that if everyone uses it, the different institutions do it. But if the library starts to use other standards in Berlin, it might be a bit bad.
My question is, is it used in the general library scene or is there a competitive standard?
There is actually an older competitive standard. It is based on XML files.
The data is usually delivered as complete images, but on this technological standard, this dynamic delivery on a Kachel basis, the basis on linked data technologies, is, in my knowledge, so competitive at the moment.
Wonderful. Thank you very much. Are there any other questions? Has the internet been reported by now? They are still sleeping. Did they have a party as well as we did?
Well, there is no one else standing on the microphones. Then I would say thank you very much, Clarenda. Thank you.
Thank you.